README.md, before:

# React + Vite

This template provides a minimal setup to get React working in Vite with HMR and some ESLint rules.

Currently, two official plugins are available:

- [@vitejs/plugin-react](https://github.com/vitejs/vite-plugin-react/blob/main/packages/plugin-react) uses [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) (or [oxc](https://oxc.rs) when used in [rolldown-vite](https://vite.dev/guide/rolldown)) for Fast Refresh
- [@vitejs/plugin-react-swc](https://github.com/vitejs/vite-plugin-react/blob/main/packages/plugin-react-swc) uses [SWC](https://swc.rs/) for Fast Refresh

## React Compiler

The React Compiler is not enabled on this template because of its impact on dev & build performances. To add it, see [this documentation](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler/installation).

## Expanding the ESLint configuration

If you are developing a production application, we recommend using TypeScript with type-aware lint rules enabled. Check out the [TS template](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/create-vite/template-react-ts) for information on how to integrate TypeScript and [`typescript-eslint`](https://typescript-eslint.io) in your project.

Commit message:

Revise README with project details and setup instructions
Updated README to provide detailed project overview, features, technologies, and setup instructions for VytalCare Health Navigator application.

README.md, after:

VytalCare Health NavigatorVytalCare is a comprehensive React-based health management dashboard that aggregates personal health metrics, manages medication schedules, and utilizes Generative AI to provide wellness insights. The application integrates directly with Google Fit for activity tracking, Firebase for data persistence, and Google Gemini for AI-driven health analysis.Project OverviewThis application serves as a centralized hub for personal health monitoring. It combines real-time data visualization with practical tools for medication adherence. The system calculates a proprietary "Health Score" based on daily metrics and provides a conversational interface for general health queries.Key Features1. Activity Dashboard & Health MetricsGoogle Fit Integration: Syncs data via Google REST APIs to display steps, sleep duration, calories burned, distance walked, and heart rate.Data Visualization: Utilizes recharts to render trend lines for heart rate, steps (3-hour intervals), distance (weekly), and sleep patterns.Hydration Tracking: Manual water intake logging with daily goal setting and automatic midnight resets.Health Score Algorithm: A custom logic engine calculates a daily score (0-100) based on weighted metrics (Steps, Sleep, Hydration, Calories, Distance, Heart Rate) and offers actionable improvement suggestions.2. Medication ManagementScheduling: CRUD operations for medication prescriptions, including dosage and specific time intervals.Reminders: Real-time browser notifications trigger when a medication dose is due.Timeline View: Visual daily timeline indicating upcoming and past doses.Adherence Logging: "Mark as Taken" functionality logs adherence to Firestore (medication_logs) and provides immediate user feedback.External Automation: Triggers an n8n webhook (/webhook/new-medication) when new prescriptions are added.3. AI-Powered InsightsWellness Assessment: Uses gemini-2.5-flash to analyze current health metrics and trends, generating a structured, tabular wellness report with actionable recommendations.Health Chatbot: A context-aware chat interface allowing users to ask general health questions. Chat history is persisted in Firestore.4. User Profile & PersistenceProfile Management: Editable fields for user demographics (Age, Height, Weight) and caregiver contact details.Cloud Sync: All user data, including profile, medications, and chat history, is synchronized with Firebase Firestore.Authentication: Supports Google Sign-In (OAuth 2.0) for accessing Google Fit scopes and Firebase Authentication (Anonymous/Custom Token) for database security.Technologies UsedFrontend FrameworkReact: Core UI library (Hooks: useState, useEffect, useCallback, useRef).Vite: Build tool (inferred from asset paths).Tailwind CSS: Utility-first styling for responsive UI design.Lucide React: Iconography.Data VisualizationRecharts: Responsive charting library for line charts, bar charts, and area graphs.Backend & ServicesFirebase SDK:Authentication: Handles user identity.Firestore: NoSQL database for storing user profiles, medications, logs, and chats.Google Fitness API: REST endpoints for aggregating activity data.Google Generative Language API (Gemini): AI model integration.n8n: Workflow automation for medication events.System ArchitectureThe application runs as a Single Page Application (SPA).Authentication Flow:User initiates login via Google OAuth 2.0.Scopes requested: activity.read, sleep.read, heart_rate.read, location.read.Upon success, the Access Token is stored in the state for API calls.Data Synchronization:Pull: The app fetches aggregated data buckets from Google Fit APIs.Push: User inputs (Profile, Meds) are written to specific Firestore paths (/artifacts/{appId}/users/{userId}/...).AI Interaction:Health metrics are formatted into a prompt and sent to the Gemini API.Responses are parsed and rendered as HTML within the UI.Configuration & Environment VariablesThe application relies on several API keys and configurations. While some are present in the source code for local execution, they should be managed via environment variables in a production setting.Required Configuration:Firebase Configuration:apiKey, authDomain, projectId, storageBucket, messagingSenderId, appId.Google OAuth:GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID: Required for the OAuth 2.0 flow.AI Integration:GEMINI_API_KEY: Required for chatbot and assessment features.Installation & SetupClone the repository:Bashgit clone https://github.com/your-username/vytalcare.git
cd vytalcare
Install dependencies:Bashnpm install
Configure Environment:Ensure valid Firebase and Google Cloud Console credentials are set. If running locally, the application checks for __initial_auth_token or falls back to the FIREBASE_LOCAL_CONFIG object defined in App.jsx.Run the development server:Bashnpm run dev
Database Schema (Firestore)The application structures data under the path /artifacts/{appId}/users/{userId}/:Collection/DocFieldsDescriptionprofile (Doc)userName, userAge, caregiverName, etc.User demographic data.medications (Coll)name, dose, times (array), createdAtActive prescriptions.medication_logs (Coll)medicationId, status, takenAt, dateKeyAdherence history.hydration (Coll)amount, goal, updatedAtDaily water intake logs (Document ID is date).chats (Coll)role, text, sources, createdAtPersistent chat history.External API UsageThis project interacts with the following external endpoints:Google Fitness Aggregate: https://www.googleapis.com/fitness/v1/users/me/dataset:aggregateGoogle Fitness Sessions: https://www.googleapis.com/fitness/v1/users/me/sessionsGemini Generate Content: https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta/models/gemini-2.5-flash:generateContentn8n Webhook: https://AdityaPrakash781-vytalcare-n8n.hf.space/webhook/new-medicationLicense
